Feature/kotlinconf 2019 (#576)
ordina-jworks/ordina-jworks.github.io: _posts/2019-12-05-KotlinConf-2019.md

A lot of improvements were also done on the JS binary size, compressing it further down by quite a bit, reducing the final size of an app.
Work is also done on JavaScript operability with support for ES modules and Dukat which will connect Kotlin types with TypeScript types.

### WebAssembly + Kotlin
WebAssembly is a new web standard supported by all major browsers.
Basically it is a special virtual machine to run all kinds of different code and Kotlin wants to be run in there too.
Currently they have a prototype that they are working on.

### Data science in Kotlin
Not all users of Kotlin are programmers.
Data scientists have also been using Kotlin in combination with Jupyter, Spark and lets-plot.

### Language changes
[KT-7770](https://youtrack.jetbrains.com/issue/KT-7770){:target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"} was mentioned.
A ticket about function interfaces created by Sergei Lebedev three years ago.

<img class="image fit" src="{{ '/img/kotlinconf-2019/keynote-5-function-interfaces.jpg' | prepend: site.baseurl }}" alt="Function interfaces" />

A function interface has a single method and you can use it as a function type.

> This also improves the Java inoperability if you want to migrate Java code from Kotlin code without things breaking.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This also improves the Java inoperability if you want to migrate Java code from Kotlin code without breaking things.
```

### Language evolutions

> It is important for JetBrains to keep the language modern although they are aware that it is not very desired to have your code broken in between updates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is important for JetBrains to keep the language modern although they are aware that it is not very desired to have breaking changes between updates.
```

If something becomes less useful it will be faded out and removed later to avoid legacy from building up.
In general, updating from one version to another should remain easy and desired.

> JetBrains will provide feedback loop to keep developers informed of upcoming changes and to stay in touch with the community.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
JetBrains will provide feedback loops to keep developers informed of upcoming changes and to stay in touch with the community.
```

If migrations are necessary, they will provide the necessary guides or tools to help developers migrate their code.

For all details, rewatch the keynote on YouTube:
<div class="responsive-video">
    <iframe width="1164" height="655" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/0xKTM0A8gdI" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; encrypted-media" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>
<br/>

## Putting down the golden hammer by [Huyen Tue Dao](https://twitter.com/queencodemonkey){:target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"}
<span class="image right"><img class="p-image" style="max-width: 200px" alt="Andrey Breslav" src="/img/kotlinconf-2019/huyen-tue-dao.jpg"></span>

> I suppose it is tempting, if the only tool you have is a hammer,
> to treat everything as if it were a nail. - Abraham H. Maslow

Huyen started her talk with the quote above.
Given a new tool or framework, it is common for people to get a bit too enthusiastic with it and to exaggerate in the usage of it, treating it as a golden hammer.

> Huyen explained to us that she questioned herself on how to better write Kotlin code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Huyen explained to us that she questioned herself on how to write better Kotlin code.
```

And in particular by avoiding her own hammers and biases.

> As background information she told us that she worked with Java and C++ before she got into touch with Kotlin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As background information, she told us that she worked with Java and C++ before she got into touch with Kotlin.
```

<span class="image right"><img class="p-image" style="max-width: 200px" alt="Katie Levy" src="/img/kotlinconf-2019/katie_levy.jpeg"></span>

Shelby Cohen and Katie Levy shared with us the story of how they managed to introduce functional programming with Kotlin into their organisation.

<img class="image fit" src="{{ '/img/kotlinconf-2019/fp_kotlin_goal.jpg' | prepend: site.baseurl }}" alt="Used libraries" />

They presented an 8-step guide on how to influence colleagues and your company to adopt Kotlin based on their experience at [Intuit](https://www.intuit.com/){:target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"}:

### 1. Find your Passion
Find something you want to be passionate about.
In this case, it is Kotlin.

### 2. Socialize
Share your passion with other people.
Try to find some things you like about Kotlin - or anything new for that matter - and tell about it to your colleagues.
Give some examples on how Kotlin removes ceremony compared to Java.
Spread the word on how Kotlin has null-safety built into the type system.

### 3. Proof of Concept

> Don't only talk about your passion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Do not only talk about your passion.
```

It is also very helpful for multi-threaded workloads.
Functional programming is easier in Kotlin because functions are so called [first-class](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/First-class_function){:target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"} citizens.
A good third party library which enhances the functional capabilities is [arrow-kt.io](https://arrow-kt.io){:target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"}.
It is similar to the [Vavr](https://www.vavr.io/) library for Java developers but with the benefits of the Kotlin idioms.

<div class="responsive-video">
    <iframe width="1164" height="655" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/F2Der7xDNVM?start=10510" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; encrypted-media" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>
<br/>

## Your First Server with Ktor by [Big Nerd Ranch](https://twitter.com/bignerdranch){:target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"}

<span class="image left"><img class="p-image" style="max-width: 200px" alt="Big Nerd Ranch" src="/img/kotlinconf-2019/big-nerd-ranch.png"></span>

This was a workshop on trying out [Ktor](https://ktor.io){:target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"} and serves as a nice introduction to the framework.

> Ktor, backed by JetBrains, is a web framework for building asynchronous servers and clients in Kotlin.

Reviewer: I have seen this already way in the beginning, maybe make it consistent on both lines

Author: Agreed. Leaving it out here.

<img class="image fit" src="{{ '/img/kotlinconf-2019/special-announcement-1-intro.jpg' | prepend: site.baseurl }}" alt="Intro" />
At the end of the first day it was time to announce JetBrains' newest product!
<span class="image right"><img class="p-image" style="max-width: 200px" alt="Maxim Shafirov" src="/img/kotlinconf-2019/maxim-shafirov.jpg"></span>

Everything started with a ticket created 15 years ago by Maxim Shafirov, the CEO of JetBrains.
The ticket was about a request to improve collaboration between teams.

<img class="image fit" src="{{ '/img/kotlinconf-2019/special-announcement-2-ticket-ceo.jpg' | prepend: site.baseurl }}" alt="Ticket CEO" />

Maxim shortly went over how JetBrains came to be.
20 years ago, three developers came together and created a product to help them refactor some code.
By now, JetBrains has created over 20 products based on their own needs.
During the growth of the company from three developers to 1.200 people, JetBrains faced many challenges on working together between all the different teams.

Creating a product involves more than just a development tool.

> You have to take into account version control, chat applications for communicating, write documentation and issue tracking.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You have to take several things into account like version control, chat applications for communicating, write documentation and issue tracking.
```

# Day Two
## The Shuttle Case by [Stephen Carver](https://twitter.com/carverstephen){:target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"}

<span class="image left"><img class="p-image" style="max-width: 200px" alt="Stephen Carver" src="/img/kotlinconf-2019/stephen-carver.jpg"></span>
The second day was kicked off with another keynote given by Stephen Carver, Senior Lecturer, consultant and speaker in Change and Crisis Management at Cranfield University School of Management.
One of the topics of the keynote was risk management and Stephen started talking about NASA.

In 2003 there was the accident with the Space Shuttle Columbia exploding during atmospheric entry causing the death of all seven crew members.

<img class="image fit" src="{{ '/img/kotlinconf-2019/the-shuttle-case-1-1986-accident.jpg' | prepend: site.baseurl }}" alt="1986 accident" />

Another similar accident happened in 1986 with the Space Shuttle Challenger.
NASA knew this would happen beforehand.
They knew about this and let this happen instead of dealing with the change culture, causing human lives to be lost needlessly.
People just didn't listen.

> It is the fault of the culture and of the system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is the fault of the culture and the system.
```

There was Laika, the first dog that made it to space in the Sputnik 2.
We had Yuri Alekseyevich Gagarin, the first human to make it into outer space and Valentina Tereshkova, the first woman in outer space.
And finally there was Alexei Leonov who was the first human to do a spacewalk.

Next up was the Moon landing of the Apollo 11 and the importance of planting the US flag by Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin.
Stephen also mentioned the Apollo 13 movie and he recommended watching it some time.
He showed a clip of the energy drain part and that they needed to conserve maximum energy in order for the crew to make it safely back to Earth.

<div class="responsive-video">
    <iframe width="1164" height="655" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/Tid44iy6Rjs" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; encrypted-media" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>
<br/>

> Failure is not an option.

More Moon landings followed and to put it in a blunt way, people were getting bored.
So what was supposed to be the next thing...? 
Commercial spaceflights, only this time the cost would need the same considerations as weight safety and performance.

However, NASA was getting old. 

> There was too much management, too little leadership, silos, politics, and management by fear.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There was too much management, too little leadership, silos, politics and management by fear.
```

Some engineers suspected that the damage was more serious.

> We did not believe pictures would be useful to us, we felt that we could have done nothing anyway so we decided not to even take them. - Ron Dittemore

According to the [CAIB Report Appendix D.13](https://www.nasa.gov/columbia/caib/html/VOL2.html){:target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"} a rescue mission was challenging but entirely feasible to save the crew.
However, NASA had the Columbia return to Earth and as it re-entered the atmosphere, the damage done to the left wing caused hot atmospheric gases to penetrate the heat shield and destroy the internal wing structure.
This caused the spacecraft to become unstable and break apart, killing the crew of seven.

In 2011 the shuttle program got shut down because the software programs got unreliable and the programmers that made it during the 60's were either retired or dead.

<img class="image fit" src="{{ '/img/kotlinconf-2019/the-shuttle-case-4-gene-kranz-vision.jpg' | prepend: site.baseurl }}" alt="Gene Kranz vision" />

> Stephen starting talking about Elon Musk and his SpaceX company that got founded in 2002.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Stephen started talking about Elon Musk and his SpaceX company that got founded in 2002.
```

<img class="image fit" src="{{ '/img/kotlinconf-2019/the-shuttle-case-5-elon.jpg' | prepend: site.baseurl }}" alt="Elon Musk" />

What was remarkable was Musk's persistence and the way he sets his mind on things.

> Failure is an option here.
> If things are not failing you are not innovating enough. - Elon Musk

He even had a small video made of all the different failures they had.

<div class="responsive-video">
    <iframe width="1164" height="655" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/bvim4rsNHkQ" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; encrypted-media" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>
<br/>

During an [interview with Musk](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CyGqMZQAMio){:target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"}, 
the interviewer mentioned that Musk received criticism from Neil Armstrong and Eugene Cernan.

> It was a hard moment for Musk as he said that it was a sad thing for him to hear and that they were heroes to him.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It was a hard moment for Musk and sad to hear because they were heroes to him.
```

He would invite them over to come visit him to see how work was done at SpaceX.

Musk's successes came one after the other:

* April 2016: [First stage landing on a drone ship](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sYmQQn_ZSys){:target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"}
* Feb 2018: [Shooting a Tesla Roadster into Space](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0FZIwabctw){:target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"}

Stephen asked the audience who had heard about Blue Origin.
About 10% of the people in the room raised their hands.
This is obviously the space company of Jeff Bezos.
Stephen explained that Bezos puts about $1 billion of personal budget each year into Blue Origin and that giving anything of it away during his divorce was out of the question for him.

With Musk and Bezos, we now have a second space race happening.
Two of the richest men of the world, racing to the Moon by 2024.

<img class="image fit" src="{{ '/img/kotlinconf-2019/the-shuttle-case-6-takeaway.jpg' | prepend: site.baseurl }}" alt="Takeaway" />

> To conclude, Stephen asked the audience who would have joined the last successful flight of the space shuttle in 2011 if they we given a ticket for it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To conclude, Stephen asked the audience who would have joined the last successful flight of the space shuttle in 2011 if they were given a ticket for it.
```

<span class="image right"><img class="p-image" style="max-width: 200px" alt="Sébastien Deleuze" src="/img/kotlinconf-2019/sebastian-deleuze.jpg"></span>
Big kudos for Sébastien Deleuze for thinking about the environment.
He took a train from France to Copenhagen to lower his CO2 emissions.
Even though his train got hit by a boar, he still managed to give us an update about the current state of Kotlin support in the Spring ecosystem.

<img class="image fit" src="{{ '/img/kotlinconf-2019/state_of_kotlin_in_spring_train.jpg' | prepend: site.baseurl }}" alt="Used libraries" />

### Why Kotlin for Spring?
Sébastien explained that Kotlin has less noise than Java.
It gets to the point a lot better and has better (null-)safety.
He also considers Kotlin to be more fun in general.
Kotlin also has a lot of traction in the Android ecosystem, which might end up influencing and changing the server world.

### Spring ♥️ Kotlin
Starting from Spring 5.2, all the Spring Framework reference documentation now has Kotlin code examples.

<img class="image fit" src="{{ '/img/kotlinconf-2019/state_of_kotlin_in_spring_documentation_status.jpg' | prepend: site.baseurl }}" alt="Used libraries" />

> The new examples are no simple cut and paste from Java but also take into account the Kotlin idioms and DSLs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Taken Kotlin and DSLs into account, It's not simply "cut and paste" from Java.
```
